UK gov't seizes documents Facebook wanted to keep private in
Cambridge Analytica battle

It appears that the UK parliament will not stand for being
ignored by Mark Zuckerberg any longer.

The UK parliament has exercised little-used powers in order to
seize confidential documents relating to the Cambridge
Analytica scandal.

It was in May this year that the UK government requested Mark
Zuckerberg's presence at a hearing in order to answer questions
relating to the scandal, in which the data of up to 87
million users was improperly shared with a voter profiling
company.

It was originally estimated that over one million UK users were
impacted.

While the Facebook CEO did attend a US Congress hearing,
meeting UK parliamentary members seemed to be a low priority,
and Zuckerberg ignored the invitation.

We said at the time that ignoring such a request could have
detrimental consequences in the future -- and it seems this
prediction has now come true.

As first reported by The Guardian, the UK parliament has
now seized confidential documents relating to the Cambridge
Analytica case.

The cache of internal documents, which reportedly contains
information relating to privacy and data controls as well as
private emails between Facebook executes and Zuckerberg, is now
allegedly in the UK government's possession.

The publication says that conservative MP and Digital, Culture,
Media and Sport (DCMS) chair Damian Collins invoked
parliamentary powers in order to send a serjeant at arms -- a
figure responsible for keeping order in the Commons -- to a
hotel where the founder of Six4Three was staying during a
London business trip.

TechRepublic: Facebook data privacy scandal: A cheat sheet

The founder of the US company was required to hand over the
documents but this request was ignored. Once the serjeant at
arms appeared, however, the executive was given a two-hour
deadline and final warning.

The Guardian says that the founder was then escorted to
parliament and told that fines and prison time could be in his
future should he continue to resist. The documents then entered
the government's possession.

Collins said that "we've failed to get answers from Facebook
and we believe the documents contain information of very high
public interest."

Facebook has demanded the return of the data cache. The
documents were originally obtained through legal discovery in
the US, where Six4Three and Facebook are involved in a court
case taking place in California. Six4Three alleges that
Facebook has held a complete disregard for user privacy,
violated trust, and has also used illegal tactics to
strengthen its market position.

Facebook, in turn, says the claims "have no merit, and we will
continue to defend ourselves vigorously."

See also: Facebook entices researchers with $40,000 reward
for account takeover vulnerabilities

"The materials obtained by the DCMS committee are subject to a
protective order of the San Mateo Superior Court restricting
their disclosure," a Facebook spokesperson said. "We have asked
the DCMS committee to refrain from reviewing them and to return
them to counsel or to Facebook. We have no further comment."

Collins has reviewed the documents and after receiving
communication from Facebook's public policy vice president
Richard Allen, posted his emailed response on Twitter.

In short, the MP said that even if documents are kept under
seal in the US, the UK government has the right to publish them
under parliamentary privilege.

The UK's Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has fined
Facebook Â£500,000 over the Cambridge Analytica fiasco, a fine
which the social media giant intends to appeal.

While the UK government and Facebook continue to clash, the
latter is also embroiled in another political issue on the
other side of the world.
